Story Recapped here. Today I'm going to show you
a science fiction action film titled District 9.
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care!
A TV documentary discloses a series of
interviews taking its audience on a trip
down the memory lane about Wikus, the MNU
operative and a starship carrying 1.8 million
extraterrestrial creatures from two decades ago.
A starship shocks humans as it brings itself to
standstill mid-air at the city of Johannesburg in
South Africa instead of stopping at Washington,
Manhattan, and Chicago. News around the planet
reports that the starship stays afloat for three
months without interfering with the humans down
below. With the lingering curiosity and argument,
humans eventually unbolt the gates of the
spaceship and discover a population of
deceased and malnourished extraterrestrials.
Humans think it is going to be a historical
encounter and a scientific breakthrough. The
humans, concluding that their leaders may
have died of malnutrition and disease, enslave
the aliens who, in any realm of possibility,
could not go back to their home planet because
of an irretrievable starship command module.
After some time, the government permits the
creatures to abandon their ship and relocate
them into a chronic area in a barren military
compound with congested cabins in Johannesburg.
The residents claim that the government
strictly ensures the absolute separation
of aliens and humans in Johannesburg. Still,
their efforts went for nothing because the
Nigerians feel tired of the lack of civilization
and humanity among the extraterrestrial creatures,
who operate their unique arms to steal and
kill whoever goes against their instincts.
The Nigerians denominate them as prawns as
they settle in consuming garbage. They lament
that the aliens take everything in Johannesburg
into their possession and turn it into ruins.
The extraterrestrials took Johannesburg upside
down with robbery, arson, rape, and murder,
adding turmoil to the already miserable place
where militarization and lawlessness prevailed.
In the middle of chaos and
dystopia, Multi-National United,
a private company that builds and sells weapons
of destruction, enters into an agreement with the
government to reduce District 9 to ruins to coerce
the aliens to transfer into a more habitable area.
The government plans to restore tranquility,
pacification, and order among humans and aliens.
MNU is instructed to do its job by evicting the
whole population of aliens using a legalized
UIU protocol. MNU appoints the primary role
of the demolition to Wikus van der Merwe,
a smart man with a gentle disposition.
Wikus is a loving husband to her wife,
whose father works as the head of the command in
MNU. Wikus, assisted by Koobus Venter, the head of
the military operations, regulates the demolition
and eviction at District 9. He feels oddly and
awkwardly optimistic about the demolition that
before they started deploying, Wikus starts
questioning the military operatives about the
unnecessary load of bullets in their pockets. The
forces head-on convoy to District 9 using military
trucks and airplanes, and even before their first
diplomatic agreement, they met hostile and violent
extraterrestrials on the way. Even though Koobus
and his troops believe in an armed eviction,
Wikus pursues to make it diplomatic despite
the hostility of the aliens. His team’s violent
correspondence subsequently killed most of their
men. While serving the warrants and searching
for illegal items inside the pods of the prawns,
Wikus encounters a warlord named Obesanjo, who
markets interspecies prostitution, cat food, and
weapons to the aliens for their survival. After
passing by Obesanjo’s territory, Wikus’ team found
a shack with millions of alien offspring fed off a
dead cow’s protein. Wikus continues their eviction
with all the remaining aliens in the area, and the
documentary team records a child testifying that
the weapons were small but destructive enough.
Later on in the documentary, an analyst claims
that the MNU took the contract because they
were primarily drawn to the lethal force of
their weapons. Still, the MNU had to study alien
DNA for that biologically designed war craft.
Meanwhile, Obesanjo’s gang roams around the
demolition area holding a firearm party,
making the aliens more agitated and hostile.
Wikus and Koobus unexpectedly end up in front
of the shack of starship pilots, where Koobus ends
up killing one of the pilots. Wikus is able to get
inside the hut, where he meets Christopher,
the only living pilot of the alien race.
He finds a cylinder that contains a black fluid
that subsequently sprays a volume into his face.
He jolts uncomfortably as he wipes the fluid
dry from his face. After he redeems himself
from the pain and nauseating effect, he keeps the
cylinder with the liquid in his vest for evidence.
Wikus grows indisposed and sick while
returning to the office after the demolition.
He discovers unusual changes in his hands. As
horror-stricken as he is, he forges home to
deliver the news to his wife but ends up fainting
at the surprise party that she has thrown for him.
She brings him to the hospital, where
the doctors report to the MNU that his
arm has mutated with that of the prawns.
Her attention is called by a group of men
who wraps his vulnerable husband in a special
suit and seizes him while she hyperventilates.
The MNU undertakes a series of tests with Wikus’
body and eventually retrieves the cylinder of
black fluid in his coat. By then, they suspect
that Wikus is becoming treacherous against MNU for
not submitting the cylinder to the lab. The head
scientist confirms beyond doubt that the alien
DNA has finally taken over his veins, muscles, and
half of Wikus’ body functions. The flabbergasted
Wikus struggles with all his might and resists
the experiment, but his father-in-law decides
to capture all the alien material from his body.
Wikus musters his strength back and escapes from
the MNU lab. He attempts to return home but finds
MNU agents there. He miserably runs across the
city as a citywide manhunt is being held against
him. He finds temporary refuge in the slums of
District 9, where he idles his night away. In the
morning, he comes across the familiar shack where
Christopher and his little son reside. He comes
inside and is dumbfounded to see several computers
reading incomprehensible code. He concludes that
Christopher is one of the alien’s leaders and
works underground the shack to make the command
module work. Christopher reveals to the poor Wikus
that he can help him go back to the human state
using the black fluid he confiscated days ago, but
Wikus has to compromise to help Christopher fuel
up the engine. Wikus admits to Christopher that
the lab took the black liquid from him when he was
captured. Christopher feels hopeless as they don
have any weapons to ransack MNU. Wikus remembers
Obesanjo and sprints there with Christopher.
They hit upon a group of men mocking Wikus for
allegedly engaging sexually with an alien, but
after losing focus, Wikus manages to steal alien
weapons from Obesanjo's camp. Obesanjo curses him
and shouts a promise to take revenge and eat his
mutated arm for power when he meets them again.
Wikus and Christopher triumphantly transgress
against MNU’s headquarters and steer to the
laboratory, where they begin their search for
the cylinder. Christopher loses his focus on
retrieving the cylinder after seeing the remains
of his race in the laboratory. Christopher
and Wikus end up fighting after satisfactorily
taking the cylinder and returning to their shack.
Wikus ends up knocking him over and runs
the engine of the command module himself.
The military operatives raze one of
the engines to the ground after a blow,
and Wikus collides together
with the command module.
The MNU operatives, which Koobus led, arrest
Wikus, but Obesanjo’s gang takes over Wikus
after defeating the MNU operatives. Believing that
eating a limb will give him destructive powers,
Obesanjo orders his gang to shear Wikus’ arm.
While that is happening, Christopher’s son
operates the command module and sets a mechanical
suit that attacks Obesanjo and his gang.
As Wickus is set free, he enters the battle suit
and comes to rescue Christopher from the MNU.
He activates all the destructive features of the
battle suit and starts to slaughter the rest of
the armed men. He collapses with a sniper’s
blow and begs Christopher to move back to the
ship’s module. Christopher objects but without
a choice, he leaves and promises to come back
to reinstate Wikus’ body. Christopher and his son
victoriously leave Johannesburg with the starship,
and the humans watch in awe and satisfaction
as it ascends out of their sight.
Meanwhile, the mechanical suit ejected Wikus
after being disfigured. He quietly drags his
aching body away from the suit until Koobus
appears and enervates his powerless body.
Koobus contemplates bringing him
back to MNU but opts to shoot him.
He was about to pull the trigger when other
prawns emerge to Wikus’ salvage and dislimb him.
Later that year, analysts and Wikus’ family and
friends confide to the documentary about the
possible whereabouts of Wikus, who has long
disappeared. They conclude that Wikus must
have been hiding in the mother ship or was held
captive by MNU and the government. The documentary
also shows that Wikus’ workmates exposed MNU’s
biological corruptions and system anomalies.
Finally, it shows Wikus’ wife holding a metal rose
which she claims to have been left by Wikus on
their doorstep. Her speculation could have been
confirmed as his husband, who loves making her
handmade gifts, sits on a junkyard in Johannesburg
while holding a metal rose, completely mutated.